I'm here in Edinburgh to talk about a
book I wrote based on my teenage diaries
which is a really bad book to write I
don't recommend doing that to anybody
and Here I am talking about it over and
over and over again the last time I did
this festival every day they would come
to me and say what tickets do you want
surely you're intelligent and engaged
enough to want to see this in this
innocent we were just so into the scenes
breezin and the little old ladies and
that we were shopping next to and the
fact that there's BBC on TV all the time
my answer was always well we have these
really nice grapes back at the flat and
and did you know that the ABC is on
television 24 hours a day I'm really bad
at going to see other people's shows
it's sort of a busman's holiday for me
the difference between performing at a
bookstore solo music festival is that
you can go to bed early enough it's not
all that different if you believe
aesthetics are aesthetics or aesthetics
it may be an age group difference at
least over here and the the interviews I
do tend to be a little more on the
therapy side and less on the your art is
outside of you but I I really have
enjoyed the opportunity to be articulate
and to be learning and I've only written
one book and I didn't know how to write
that so I sort of refreshing to be the
person who doesn't know what's going on
and to be surrounded by people that I I
would like to learn something from I'm
reading a book by the archetypal
psychologist James Hillman called the
souls code he's a lecturer who used to
lecture with my father who is
lectures and philosophy and this
particular book is very readable it's an
it's the idea that we live our lives
backwards as in the Acorn holds the code
to the oak tree and it's about our
callings about how they can be found in
our childhoods and how we need to
forgive children for their idiosyncratic
behavior because they're the Acorn
sometimes a little branch soul bursts
out of the Acorn and you have no idea
where it came from but we need to be
patient with that because it's going
somewhere and I've had a lot of struggle
with my calling and so this book is
really good for me it's like yeah
talking to one of my dad's friends about
why the hell did I do this and how did I
let this happen and just because of the
guitar all of this had just cause of a
piece of wood the only book I think that
has genuinely changed my perspective as
Natalie Angiers the beauty of the
beastly she is a New York Times science
writer and this is a collection of
articles from science times but she's
she's strikingly into anthropomorphism
and she believes even cells should be
infused with human projections and it's
a lovely way to write about science I
realized that it brought together two
aspects of my perception that I had
always struggled with before thinking
one opposed to the other humanity and
science and one is not hot and the other
cold they actually are exactly the same
thing
I took four years to write this book it
was essentially a book that was already
written it was a diary but it was one
that made no sense and it was quite
esoteric and is really for two years
it was a book that just sucked and then
for two more years
was a voice that I had to let fly but
not the way lyrics fly lyrics are just
they puke themselves out for me anyway I
hear them as an instrument of phonetic
melody and when I try to sing lyrics
that are wrong they stick in my throat I
feel like I'm lying and it's not until
they spill out that I know I'm telling
the truth because I often miss hear them
to the point where I'm singing lyrics
that rhyme with the correct lyrics which
is dumb and I almost got to that point
where the book was sort of flying but it
has nothing to do with my throat and it
has nothing to do with listening to
what's in the ether
they're just trying not to lie so maybe
they have that in common